# Database Description

A description of your database, including tables, attributes, primary keys, foreign keys, 
foreign key constraints, FDs, whether in 3NF, and one or two rows of sample data for each table. 

**This software uses the latest version of PostgresSQL (16.1) for operations**

## Users
The users of the website

`UserID` is a unique ID generated by Postgres, incrementing by 1 each time. 
`Username` is a unique name used to identify the user.
`Password` is the password used to log in the user.
`AvgWPM` is the User's average WPM.

| Key         | DataType       |
|-------------|----------------|
| UserID (PK) | INTEGER        |
| Username    | TEXT           |
| Password    | TEXT           |
| AvgWPM      | DECIMAL(10, 4) |

`(1, "Precious", "Test1", 35.4)`

## Roles
The roles/permission level of each user in the system

`RoleCode` is a unique integer used to identify the Role.
`RoleName` is the client facing name of the Role.
`RolePermision` is the level of permission allowed by the Role, the higher the more permission.
`RoleUsers` represents the number of users identified by a Role.

| Key            | DataType |
|----------------|----------|
| RoleCode (PK)  | INTEGER  |
| RoleName       | TEXT     |
| RolePermission | SMALLINT |
| RoleUsers      | INTEGER  |

`(1, "user", 1, 1)`

## Rounds
Every round of typing that occurs on the website

`RoundID` is a unique ID generated by Postgres, incrementing by 1 each time. 
`UserID` is a foreign key representing the user that completed the Round.
`WPM` is the average WPM of the Round.
`RoundTime` is the time that the Round was submitted to the website.

| Key          | DataType  |
|--------------|-----------|
| RoundID (PK) | INTEGER   |
| UserID (FK)  | INTEGER   |
| WPM          | INTEGER   |
| RoundTime    | TIMESTAMP |

`(1, 1, 35.4, '2023-12-25 00:00:00')`

## UserRoles
Represents the Role that each User has

`UserID` is a foreign key representing the user that owns the Role.
`RoleCode` is a foreign key representing the Role that the user has.
`CreatedAt` is the time that the User was given the role.

| Key           | DataType  |
|---------------|-----------|
| UserID (FK)   | INTEGER   |
| RoleCode (FK) | INTEGER   |
| CreatedAt     | TIMESTAMP |

`(1, 1, '2023-12-24 00:00:00')`
